Q: What is Amazon Kinesis Data Analytics?
Amazon Kinesis Data Analytics is the easiest way to transform and analyze streaming data in real time with Apache Flink. Apache Flink is an open source framework and engine for processing data streams. Amazon Kinesis Data Analytics reduces the complexity of building, managing, and integrating Apache Flink applications with other AWS services.

Amazon Kinesis Data Analytics takes care of everything required to run streaming applications continuously, and scales automatically to match the volume and throughput of your incoming data. With Amazon Kinesis Data Analytics, there are no servers to manage, no minimum fee or setup cost, and you only pay for the resources your streaming applications consume.

What can I do with Kinesis Data Analytics?
You can use Kinesis Data Analytics for many use cases to process data continuously and get insights in seconds or minutes rather than waiting days or even weeks. Kinesis Data Analytics enables you to quickly build end-to-end stream processing applications for log analytics, clickstream analytics, Internet of Things (IoT), ad tech, gaming, and more. The four most common use cases are streaming extract-transform-load (ETL), continuous metric generation, responsive real-time analytics, and interactive querying of data streams.
Streaming ETL
Streaming ETL applications enable you to clean, enrich, organize, and transform raw data prior to loading your data lake or data warehouse in real-time, reducing or eliminating batch ETL steps. These applications can buffer small records into larger files prior to delivery, and perform sophisticated joins across streams and tables. For example, you can build an application that continuously reads IoT sensor data stored in Amazon Managed Streaming for Apache Kafka (Amazon MSK), organize the data by sensor type, remove duplicate data, normalizes data per a specified schema, and then deliver the data to Amazon S3.
 
Continuous metric generation
Continuous metric generation applications enable you to monitor and understand how your data is trending over time. Your applications can aggregate streaming data into critical information and seamlessly integrate it with reporting databases and monitoring services to serve your applications and users in real-time. With Kinesis Data Analytics, you can use SQL or Apache Flink code to continuously generate time-series analytics over time windows. For example, you can build a live leaderboard for a mobile game by computing the top players every minute and then sending it to Amazon DynamoDB. Or, you can track the traffic to your website by calculating the number of unique website visitors every five minutes and then sending the processed results to Amazon Redshift.
 
Responsive real-time analytics
Responsive real-time analytics applications send real-time alarms or notifications when certain metrics reach predefined thresholds, or in more advanced cases, when your application detects anomalies using machine learning algorithms. These applications enable you to respond immediately to changes in your business in real-time like predicting user abandonment in mobile apps and identifying degraded systems. For example, an application can compute the availability or success rate of a customer-facing API over time, and then send results to Amazon CloudWatch. You can build another application to look for events that meet certain criteria, and then automatically notify the right customers using Amazon Kinesis Data Streams and Amazon Simple Notification Service (SNS).
 
Interactive analysis of data streams
Interactive analysis enables streaming data exploration in real time. With ad hoc queries or programs, you can inspect streams from Amazon MSK or Amazon Kinesis Data Streams and visualize how data looks like within those streams. For example, you can view how a real-time metric that computes the average over a time window behaves and send the aggregated data to a destination of your choice. Interactive analysis also helps with iterative development of stream processing applications. The queries you build will continuously update as new data arrives. With Amazon Kinesis Data Analytics Studio you can deploy these queries to run continuously with autoscaling and durable state backups enabled.
